Content taken from DOE Office of Science FY 2019 Continuation of
Solicitation for the Office of Science Financial Assistance Program


The Advanced Scientific Computing Research (ACSR) has priority areas in:
Develop mathematical models, methods and algorithms to accurately
describe and predict the behavior of complex systems involving processes
that span vastly different time and/or length scales.

Applied Mathematics subprogram:
This subprogram supports research and development of applied
mathematical models, methods, and algorithms for understanding complex
natural and engineered systems related to DOE’s mission. Important areas
of supported research include: (1) novel numerical methods for the
scalable solution of large-scale, linear and nonlinear systems of
equations, including those solution methods that take into consideration
the possibilities brought about by future HPC architectures; ... (3)
numerical methods for modeling multiscale, multi-physics or
multi-component continuous or discrete systems that span a wide range of
time and length scales; 

Submission of preliminary research descriptions (e.g., preproposals,
preapplications) is strongly encouraged. They will be reviewed for
responsiveness of the proposed work to the research topics. Send e-mail
to the Subprogram Contact for information regarding format and content.

Steven Lee, (301) 903-5710, 
Steven.Lee@science.doe.gov
http://science.energy.gov/ascr/research/applied-mathematics/


Historically, applications that arrive in response to the FOA have
resulted in 200 to 350 new awards per year.

Awards are expected to be made for a project period of six months to
five years as befitting the project, with the most common project period
being three years in duration.


Pre-applications (White paper)

The pre-application should be concise (up to three pages), provide a
summary of the proposed research, provide a list of proposed
collaborators/co-investigators/consultants with their institutions, and
contain brief biographical information of the principal investigator(s).
Please also include an order-of-magnitude estimate of the proposed
work’s total cost.

Feedback from DOE to the principal investigator is optional, but you are encouraged to use your submitted pre-application/white paper to initiate a discussion with the listed program manager about the appropriateness of the proposed research for this solicitation.

The pre-application attachment should include, at the top of the first page, the following information:
    Title of Pre-application
    Principal Investigator Name, Job Title
    Institution
    PI Phone Number, PI Email Address
    DOE/Office of Science Program Office:
    Funding Opportunity Announcement Number: DE-FOA-0001968


It is important that the pre-application be a single file with extension
.pdf, .docx, or .doc. The filename should not exceed 50 characters. The
pre-application must be submitted electronically through the DOE Office
of Science Portfolio Analysis and Management System (PAMS) website
https://pamspublic.science.energy.gov/. The Principal Investigator and
anyone submitting on behalf of the Principal Investigator must register
for an account in PAMS before it will be possible to submit a
pre-application. All PIs and those submitting pre-applications on behalf
of PIs are encouraged to establish PAMS accounts as soon as possible to
avoid submission delays.


